.TH tracker-reset 1 "September 2014" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-reset \- Reset the index and configuration

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker reset\fR [\-\-hard | \-\-soft] [\-\-config] [\-\-file \fIFILE\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The reset command will change either your configuration or index
irreversibly and should be used with care. Other than tags, actual
data (e.g. files) should not be affected by this command.

The "index" is a link between your content (either locally or
remotely) and how it can be found quickly using a number of different
queries. Under the hood, this is done using a database.

Removing all data and starting again from the beginning with an empty
data set (which is a common use of this command) is done by using the
hard reset option. This behaves as if Tracker was just installed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-hard
This kills all processes in the same way that \fBtracker daemon
\-\-kill\fR does but it also removes all databases. Restarting
\fBtracker-store\fR re-creates the databases.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-soft
A soft reset works exactly the same way that \fB\-\-hard\fR does, with
the exception that the backup and journal are not removed. These are
restored when \fBtracker-store\fR is restarted. This command is useful if
you have a corrupt database but want to reply the journal to restore
it to the last known good place.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config
Resets all configuration to its defaults.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file \fIFILE\fR
Resets all indexed information about \fIFILE\fR, works recursively for
directories. Nothing will be done if \fIFILE\fR is not currently indexed.
After deletion, a request to reindex this data will be immediately issued.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-daemon (1).
.BR tracker (1).
