.TH tracker-index 1 "September 2014" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-index \- List, pause, resume and command data miners indexing content

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBtracker index\fR \-\-reindex\-mime\-type <\fImime1\fR> [[\-m [\fImime2\fR]] ...]
\fBtracker index\fR \-\-file <\fIfile1\fR> [[\fIfile2\fR] ...]
\fBtracker index\fR \-\-import <\fIfile1\fR> [[\fIfile2\fR] ...]
\fBtracker index\fR \-\-backup <\fIfile\fR> | \-\-restore <\fIfile\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This command perform actions on the current index. The "index" holds a
snapshot of the working tree in a database.

The index command allows some level of control on existing data
indexed, such as re-indexing content from a specific demographic -
e.g. all JPEG images, or simply reindexing an existing or non-existent
file.

It may be a good idea to backup your index before an upgrade in case
there is data loss (which should never happen). In those cases, the
backup command is made available and of course the restore command
will import an older data set (or index) into an empty index.

Finally, there is an import feature which makes testing or applying a
"base" data set for use much easier.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-reindex-mime\-type\fR=<\fImime1\fR> [[\-m [\fImime2\fR]] ...]
Re-index files which match the \fImime\fR type supplied. This is
usually used when installing new extractors which support \fImime\fR
types previously unsupported. This forces Tracker to re-index those
files. You can use \fB\-\-reindex\-mime\-type\fR more than once per
\fImime\fR type.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-index\fR=<\fIfile1\fR> [[\fIfile2\fR] ...]
(Re)index a file matching the \fIfile\fR name(s) supplied.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-backup\fR=<\fIfile\fR>
Begins backing up the Tracker databases and save it to the \fIfile\fR
given.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-restore\fR=<\fIfile\fR>
Begins restoring a previous backup from the \fIfile\fR which points to
the location of the backup generated by \fB\-\-backup\fR.
.TP
.B \i, \-\-import\fR=<\fIfile1\fR> [[\fIfile2\fR] ...]
Allows data to be imported into the index / database by providing
files with Turtle content.

Multiple \fIfile\fR arguments can be provided to import data from
multiple files.

The \fIfile\fR argument can be either a local path or a URI. It also
does not have to be an absolute path.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker (1).
.BR Turtle.
