.TH tracker-extract 1 "April 2016" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-extract \- Extract metadata from a file.

.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBtracker extract\fR \fIFILE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker extract
reads the file provided and extracts any metadata it can from this
file, then displays the metadata on standard output.

The metadata is displayed as a SPARQL update command, that can be run against
a SPARQL endpoint to update its copy of the metadata.

The actual extraction is done by a separate process. This is done to isolate
the calling process from any memory leaks or crashes in the libraries Tracker
uses to extract metadata.

For more information see the libtracker-extract reference documentation.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbosity\fR=<\fILEVEL\fR>
This sets the log verbosity for the extractor process.

The possible \fILEVEL\fR options are:
.sp
.RS 12
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIdebug\fR
\- Show EVERYTHING, from debug messages to errors.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIdetailed\fR
\- Show enough detail to understand what is happening.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIminimal\fR
\- Show an overview of what is going on
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIerrors\fR
\- Show only warnings, criticals, errors or fatal events.
.RE

.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output-format\fR=<\fIFORMAT\fR>
Choose which format to use to output results. Supported formats are
\fIsparql\fR and \fIturtle\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Using command line to extract metadata from a file:

.BR
$ tracker extract /path/to/some/file.mp3

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_EXTRACTORS_DIR
This is the directory which tracker uses to load the shared libraries
from (used for extracting metadata for specific file types). These are
needed on each invocation of tracker-store. If unset it will default
to the correct place. This is used mainly for testing purposes. The
default location is /usr/lib/tracker-1.0/extract-modules/.
.TP
.B TRACKER_EXTRACTOR_RULES_DIR
This is the directory which tracker uses to load the rules files from.
The rules files describe extractor modules and their supported MIME
types. The default location is /usr/share/tracker/extract-rules/.
.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_CONFIG_FILES
Don't use GSettings, instead use a config file similar to how settings
were saved in 0.10.x. That is, a file which is much like an .ini file.
These are saved to $HOME/.config/tracker/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-sparql (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
.TP
.BR /usr/lib/tracker-1.0/extract-modules/
.TP
.BR /usr/share/tracker/extract-rules/
