.TH tracker-status 1 "July 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-status \- Report the state of all data miners

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-status\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-status
shows the status of all miners installed. It also allows pausing and
resuming of miners. For
.B tracker-store
state, you need to use
.B tracker-control
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-follow
Follow status changes as they happen. This requires Ctrl+C to stop and
return to the command line. Each new status is put on a new line. To
get more information, you can use 
.B \-\-detailed 
with this.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-detailed
For the most part, this purely provides a timestamp with each status
update to follow WHEN changes happened.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-list-common-statuses
This will list statuses most commonly produced by miners and the
store. These statuses are not translated when sent over D-Bus and
should be translated by each application. These are not considered
static and are subject to change at any point.

Additionally, these statuses are not the only ones which may be
reported by a miner. There may be other states pertaining to the
specific roles of the miner in question.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-list-miners-running
This will list all miners which have responded to a D-Bus call.
Sometimes it is helpfult to use this command with
.B \-\-list-miners-available.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-list-miners-available
This will list all miners which are available even if they are not
running at the moment.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-pause-details
For listing all miners which are paused and the reasons for being
paused, you can use this. It will also display the application that
requested the pause too.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-miner=MINER
This argument is used with 
.B \-\-pause
and 
.B \-\-resume
to say which miner you want to pause or resume. You can use the full
D-Bus name, e.g.
.B org.freedesktop.Tracker1.Miner.Files
OR you can use the suffix, e.g.
.B Files
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pause=REASON
The REASON here is useful to know WHY the miner should be paused. A
miner can be paused many times by multiple applications. Only when all
pauses have been resumed will it continue. If successful, a cookie
will be given to uniquely identify the request. This cookie is used to
resume the pause at a later stage.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-resume=COOKIE
The COOKIE is given by a successful
.B \-\-pause
command. It is a number which identifies each pause request. When all
pauses have been resumed, the miner will resume working.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-control (1)
