.TH tracker-search 1 "July 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-search \- Search all content for keywords

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-search\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...] \fIEXPRESSION\fR [\fIEXPRESSION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-search
searches all indexed content for \fIEXPRESSION\fR. The resource in
which \fIEXPRESSION\fR matches must exist (see 
.B \-\-all
for more information). All results are returned in ascending order. In
all cases, if no \fIEXPRESSION\fR is given for an argument (like 
.B \-\-folders
for example) then ALL items in that category are returned instead.
.TP
\fIEXPRESSION\fR
One or more terms to search. The default operation is a logical AND.
For logical OR operations, see -r.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help-all
Display all help options available.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-limit=N
Limit search to N results. The default is 10 or 512 with \-\-disable\-snippets.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-offset=N
Offset the search results by N. For example, start at item number 10
in the results. The default is 0.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-or-operator
Use OR for search terms instead of AND (the default)
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-detailed
Show the unique URN associated with each search result. This does not
apply to \-\-music\-albums and \-\-music\-artists.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all
Show results which might not be available. This might bebecause a
removable media is not mounted for example. Without this option,
resources are only shown if they exist. This option applies to all
command line switches except
.TP
.B \-\-disable-snippets
Results are shown with snippets. Snippets are context around the word
that was searched for in the first place. This gives some idea of if
the resource found is the right one. Snippets require Full Text Search
to be compile time enabled AND to not be disabled with
\-\-disable\-fts. Using \-\-disable\-snippets only shows the resources
which matched, no context is provided about where the match occurred.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-fts
If Full Text Search (FTS) is available, this option allows it to be
disabled for one off searches. This returns results slightly
using particular properties to match the search terms (like nie:title)
instead of looking for the search terms amongst ALL properties. It is
more limiting to do this, but sometimes searching without FTS can
yield better results if the FTS ranking is off.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-color
This disables any ANSI color use on the command line. By default this
is enabled to make it easier to see results.
.B \-\-music-albums
and
.B \-\-music-artists.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-files
Search for files of any type matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-folders
Search for folders matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-music
Search for music files matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B      \-\-music\-albums
Search for music albums matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B      \-\-music\-artists
Search for music artists matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-images
Search for images matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-videos
Search for videos matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-documents
Search for documents matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional).
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-emails
Search for emails matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of subjects for emails found.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-contacts
Search for contacts matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of names and email addresses found.
.TP
.B \-\-software
Search for software installed matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of desktop files and application titles found.
.TP
.B \-\-software-categories
Search for software categories matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of urns and their categories (e.g. Settings, Video, Utility, etc).
.TP
.B \-\-feeds
Search through RSS feed information matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
of those found.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-bookmarks
Search through bookmarks matching \fIEXPRESSION\fR (optional). Returns a list
titles and links for each bookmark found.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_SPARQL_BACKEND
This option allows you to choose which backend you use for connecting
to the database. This choice can limit your functionality. There are
three settings.

With "\fBdirect\fR" the connection to the database is made directly to
the file itself on the disk, there is no intermediary daemon or
process. The "\fBdirect\fR" approach is purely \fIread-only\fR.

With "\fBbus\fR" the \fBtracker-store\fR process is used to liase with
the database queuing all requests and managing the connections via an
IPC / D-Bus. This adds a small overhead \fIBUT\fR this is the only
approach you can use if you want to \fIwrite\fR to the database.

With "\fBauto\fR" the backend is decided for you, much like it would
be if this environment variable was undefined.

.TP
.B TRACKER_PRAGMAS_FILE
Tracker has a fixed set of PRAGMA settings for creating its SQLite connection.
With this environment variable pointing to a text file you can override these
settings. The file is a \\n separated list of SQLite queries to execute on any
newly created SQLite connection in tracker-store.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-tag (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
