.TH tracker-store 1 "Jan 2008" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-store \- indexer daemon for tracker search tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tracker-store [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Trackerd
provides both a powerful indexer and an extensible metadata database. It
indexes files including the text contents and any available metadata to
provide fast search services.
.PP
By default, tracker-store will index all files in a user's home directory (with
the exception of hidden files). This can be overridden by specifying
one or more directories to be indexed instead in the configuration file
($HOME/.config/tracker/tracker.cfg) and/or by using the --include-dir
option to specify other directories to be indexed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-?, --help
A brief help message including some examples.

.TP
\-e, --monitors-exclude-dir=/PATH/DIR
Specifies a directory to be excluded from indexing (including all
subdirectories). Can be repeated (-e <path> -e <path>) to exclude 
more than one directory.

.TP
\-i, --monitors-include-dir=/PATH/DIR
Specifies a directory to be included for indexing. All non-hidden
subdirectories of the specified directory will also be indexed. If this
param is set then the user's home directory is no longer indexed by
default (you can still add the home directory with this option).

.TP
\-c, --crawler-include-dirs=/PATH/DIR
Specify directories to crawl. Crawling of directories means index every
indexable content but do not watch for directory or file changes.

.TP
\-n, --disable-indexing
Prevent
.B tracker-store
from indexing and watching. Searching is still
possible.

.TP
\-v, --verbosity=value
Makes tracker-store log/print more information. Value can be one of 0 - show
only errors, 1 - show only minimal output, 2 - show detailed output and
3 - show debug output (don't do this, unless you know what you are doing).

.TP
\-m, --low-memory
Minimise memory usage. Note that this may slow down indexing.

.TP
\-s, --initial-sleep=value
Set the initial sleep time in seconds. This is the time
.B tracker-store
waits at startup before indexing.

.TP
\-l, --language=value
Language to use for stemmer and stop words list (ISO 639-1 2 characters
code).

.TP
\-R, --force-reindex
This forces tracker-store to re-index all watched files and directories.
Since every watched directory and any previously indexed file has to be
read and processed again, this may degrade the whole system performance.

.TP
\-f, --fatal-errors
Makes any errors fatal, i.e. forces abortion of
.B tracker-store.
This switch is only useful for debugging.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_DB_MODULES_DIR
This is the directory which the SQLite modules will be loaded from. At
the moment this is only the tracker-fts module. If unset it will
default to the correct place. This is used mainly for testing
purposes.

.TP
.B TRACKER_DB_SQL_DIR
This is the directory which tracker uses to load the .sql files from.
These are needed on each invocation of tracker-store. If unset it will
default to the correct place. This is used mainly for testing
purposes.

.TP
.B TRACKER_DB_ONTOLOGIES_DIR
This is the directory which tracker uses to load the .ontology files
from. If unset it will default to the correct place. This is used
mainly for testing purposes.

.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.config/tracker/tracker.cfg
.RS
Trackerd user configuration file. See
.BR tracker.cfg (5)
and
.BR tracker-preferences (1)
for further details.

.SH NOTES
.B Trackerd
needs a
.BR dbus-daemon(1)
to be running within your current session.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-applet (1),
.BR tracker-search-tool (1),
.BR tracker-search (1),
.BR tracker-tag (1),
.BR tracker-stats (1),
.BR tracker-query (1),
.BR tracker-meta-folder (1),
.BR tracker-files (1),
.BR tracker-services (1),
.BR tracker-info (1),
.BR tracker-status (1),
.BR tracker-services (1)
