.TH tracker-miner-fs.cfg 5 "September 2009" GNU "Configuration Files"

.SH NAME
tracker-miner-fs.cfg \- Configuration file for tracker-miner-fs

.SH DESCRIPTION
This file resides in $HOME/.config/tracker/ and uses the common .ini format, i.e.

.PP
  [Group]
  # Comment
  Key=Value

.SH SECTIONS

.SS [General]
.TP
.B Verbosity
Log verbosity, 0=errors, 1=minimal, 2=detailed, 3=debug.

.TP
.B InitialSleep=15
Time in seconds before crawling filesystem (0->1000).

.SS [Monitors]
.TP
.B EnableMonitors=true
Set to false to completely disable any monitoring.

.TP
.B ScanTimeout=0
Time in seconds between same events to prevent flooding (0->1000).

.TP
.B CacheTimeout=60
Time in seconds for events to be cached (0->1000).

.SS [Indexing]
.TP
.B Throttle=0
Sets the indexing speed (0->20, where 20=slowest speed).

.TP
.B IndexOnBattery=false
Set to true to index while running on battery.

.TP
.B IndexOnBatteryFirstTime=true
Set to true to index while running on battery for the first time only.

.TP
.B IndexMountedDirectories=true
Set to true to enable traversing mounted directories on other file
systems (this excludes removable devices).

.TP
.B IndexRemovableMedia=true
Set to true to enable traversing
.B ALL
removable media such as memory cards,
CDs, DVDS, etc. Disabling this means that
.B IndexOpticalDiscs
has no effect and is considered false.
.

.TP
.B IndexOpticalDiscs=false
Set to true to enable traversing optical discs only, this includes CDs
DVDs, etc.
.B IndexRemovableMedia
must be true for this option to have any effect.

.TP
.B LowDiskSpaceLimit=1
Pause indexer when disk space is <= this value (0->100, value is in %
of $HOME file system, -1=disable pausing).

.TP
.B IndexRecursiveDirectories=$HOME;
List of directories to crawl recursively for indexing (separator=;).

.TP
.B IndexSingleDirectories=
List of directories to index but not sub-directories for changes (separator=;).

.TP
.B IgnoredDirectories=po;CVS;.svn;.git;core-dumps;
List of directories to NOT crawl for indexing (separator=;).

.TP
.B IgnoredDirectoriesWithContent=backup.metadata;
List of directories to NOT crawl for indexing based on child files (separator=;).

.TP
.B IgnoredFiles=*~;*.o;
List of files to NOT index (separator=;).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-miner-fs (1),
.BR tracker-extract.cfg (5),
.BR tracker-fts.cfg (5),
.BR tracker-store.cfg (5).
