.TH tracker-miner-fs 1 "September 2009" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-miner-fs \- Used to crawl the file system to mine data.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-miner-fs\fR [\fIOPTION\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tracker-miner-fs
is not supposed to be run by the user since it is started by
its .desktop file when the user logs in. It can also be started
manually of course for debugging purposes. You can not run more than
one instance of this at the same time.

.B tracker-miner-fs
mines information about applications and files only.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Returns the version of this binary.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbosity={0|1|2|3}
Sets the logging level, 0=errors, 1=minimal, 2=detailed, 3=debug.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-initial-sleep=SECONDS
Sets the initial sleep time before crawling the file system is
started. If the
.B \-\-no-daemon
option is used, this option is ignored.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-daemon
Tells the miner to exit once all indexing has finished and the
database is up to date. This is not the default mode of operation for
the miner, usually it stays around acting like a daemon to monitor
file updates which may occur over time. This option renders the
.B \-\-initial-sleep
option moot.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-eligible=FILE
Checks if 
.B FILE 
is eligible for being mined based on the current
configuration rules. In addition to this, it will check if 
.B FILE
would be monitored for changes. This works with non-existing 
.B FILE
arguments as well as existing 
.B FILE
arguments.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-disable-miner=MINER
Tells the daemon to disable the in-house miners it supports. Depending
on build options, this can be 'Files', 'Applications'
and 'Userguides'. This option can be provided more than once to
diasable multiple miners. Disable in this case means the miner is not
started, though all miners still register themselves on D-Bus and
appear there, no actual action is performed otherwise (such as
crawling, setting up monitors, or checking mtimes against the
file system).

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_LOG_FILES
Don't just log to stdout and stderr, but to log files too which are
kept in $HOME/.local/share/tracker/. This came into effect in 0.15.3
and 0.16.0. After this version of Tracker, logging to file (usually
useful for debugging) can only be done by declaring this environment
variable.
.TP
.B TRACKER_USE_CONFIG_FILES
Don't use GSettings, instead use a config file similar to how settings
were saved in 0.10.x. That is, a file which is much like an .ini file.
These are saved to $HOME/.config/tracker/

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1),
.BR tracker-info (1).
