.TH tracker-daemon 1 "September 2014" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-daemon \- Start, stop, restart and list daemons responsible for indexing content

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fBtracker daemon\fR [\fIoptions\fR...]
\fBtracker daemon\fR \-s | \-t [\fIdaemons\fR] | \-k [\fIdaemons\fR] | \-l
\fBtracker daemon\fR \-f | \-w [\fIontology\fR]
\fBtracker daemon\fR \-\-miner <\fIminer\fR> \-\-pause[-for-process] <\fIreason\fR>
\fBtracker daemon\fR \-\-miner <\fIminer\fR> \-\-resume <\fIcookie\fR> 

.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Tracker has many components to it including a "store" for handling data
set updates and "miners" for handling data mining in their respective
areas.

The \fBtracker daemon\fR command allows for control of these components.
This ranges from starting, stopping and killing processes to pausing
and resuming them. 

In addition to all this, there are ways to change the log verbsity for
all processes that generate logs and to follow or watch what is
happening in real time from a top level and right down where the
SPARQL commits are happening too.

If no arguments are provided this command will show the current status
of all Tracker entities (store and all available data miners).

For \fBtracker-store\fR, the status is always "Idle" unless it is
restoring a backup and/or replaying a journal (see also \fBtracker reset
--soft\fR). For a list of common statuses, see
\fB\-\-list\-common\-statuses\fR.

The data miners can be paused or resumed using this command and you can
also list miners running and available.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-list\-processes
This lists all Tracker processes in the system.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kill\fR=[\fIdaemons\fR]
This uses SIGKILL to stop all Tracker processes found matching the
parameter, if no extra parameter is passed, "all" will be assumed.
This is not advised unless you are having problems stopping Tracker in
the first place. This \fBGUARANTEES\fR death.

The possible \fIdaemons\fR options are:
.sp
.RS 12
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIall\fR
\- All daemons.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIstore\fR
\- Only the \fBtracker-store\fR.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIminers\fR
\- Only data miners.
.sp
.RE

.TP
.B \-t, \-\-terminate\fR=[daemons]
This uses SIGTERM to stop all Tracker processes found matching the
parameter, if no extra parameter is passed, "all" will be assumed.
This is recommended over \-\-kill because it gives the processes time
to shutdown cleanly.

For a list of possible \fIdaemons\fR, see \-\-kill.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-start
Starts all miners. This indirectly starts \fBtracker-store\fR too
because it is needed for miners to operate properly. The store is
started from D-Bus.
.TP
.B \-\-get\-log\-verbosity
This displays the log verbosity for ALL components using GSettings for
this configuration. For possible values, see
.B \-\-set\-log\-verbosity.
.TP
.B \-\-set\-log\-verbosity\fR=<\fIverbosity\fR>
This sets the log verbosity for ALL daemons using GSettings to store
their "verbosity" configuration.

The possible \fIverbosity\fR options are:
.sp
.RS 12
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIdebug\fR
\- Show EVERYTHING, from debug messages to errors. This often includes
actual SQL being executed.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIdetailed\fR
\- Show enough detail to understand what is happening.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIminimal\fR
\- Show an overview of what is going on, e.g. stats and when things
start or stop.
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
\fIerrors\fR
\- Show only warnings, criticals, errors or fatal events.
.RE

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-follow
Follow status changes to daemons as they happen. This is a top level
view of what is happening. You will see the name for each daemon and a
state with the progress in that state.

This requires Ctrl+C to stop and return to the command line. Each new
status is put on a new line.

.TP
.B \-w, \-\-watch\fR=[\fIontology\fR]
Watch changes that happen to the database in real time. This requires
Ctrl+C to stop and return to the command line.

If \fIontology\fR is unspecified, all updates are shown. The
\fIontology\fR can be a comma separated list of shorthand or long hand
ontology properties. For example:

.nf
    $ tracker-control -w nie:url,nie:mimeType,nfo:fileSize,nie:dataSource
    Now listening for resource updates to the database
    All nie:plainTextContent properties are omitted

    Press Ctrl+C to stop

    'nfo:Document'
       'nfo:fileSize' = '1770'
       'nie:dataSource' = 'http://www.tracker-project.org/ontologies/tracker#extractor-data-source'
       'nie:mimeType' = 'text/plain'
       'nie:url' = 'file:///home/martyn/.bash_aliases'
    'nfo:Document'
       'nie:dataSource' = 'http://www.tracker-project.org/ontologies/tracker#extractor-data-source'

    ...
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-list-common-statuses
This will list statuses most commonly produced by miners and the
store. These statuses are not translated when sent over D-Bus and
should be translated by each application. These are not considered
static and are subject to change at any point.

Additionally, these statuses are not the only ones which may be
reported by a miner. There may be other states pertaining to the
specific roles of the miner in question.
.TP
.B \-\-list\-miners\-running
This will list all miners which have responded to a D-Bus call.
Sometimes it is helpful to use this command with
.B \-\-list\-miners\-available.
.TP
.B \-\-list-miners-available
This will list all miners which are available even if they are not
running at the moment.
.TP
.B \-\-pause\-details
For listing all miners which are paused and the reasons for being
paused, you can use this. It will also display the application that
requested the pause too.
.TP
.B \-\-miner\fR=<\fIminer\fR>
This argument is used with \fB\-\-pause\fR or \fB\-\-resume\fR to say
which miner you want to pause or resume. You can use the full D-Bus
name, e.g. "org.freedesktop.Tracker1.Miner.Files" OR you can use
the suffix, e.g. "Files".
.TP
.B \-\-pause\fR=<\fIreason\fR>
The \fIreason\fR here is useful to know WHY the miner should be paused. A
miner can be paused many times by multiple applications. Only when all
pauses have been resumed will it continue. If successful, a cookie
will be given to uniquely identify the request. This cookie is used to
resume the pause at a later stage.
.TP
.B \-\-pause\-for\-process\fR=<\fIreason\fR>
This works exactly the same way as \fB\-\-pause\fR with the exception
that it only keeps the pause active while the calling process is
alive. As soon as you press Ctrl+C the pause is resumed automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-resume\fR=<\fIcookie\fR>
The \fIcookie\fR is given by a successful \fB\-\-pause\fR command. It
is a number which identifies each pause request. When all pauses have
been resumed, the miner will resume working.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker-store (1).
