.TH tracker-thumbnailer 1 "July, 2007" GNU "User Commands"

.SH NAME
tracker-thumbnailer \- create freedesktop.org compliant thumbnails (Deprecated)

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtracker-thumbnailer\fR \fIFILE\fR \fIMIMETYPE\fR \fIICONSIZE\fR 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B IMPORTANT NOTE:
This program is 
.B DEPRECATED,
in favour of the new freedesktop
standard to request the creation of thumbnails. If your programs or
scripts are using this program, please port your code to the new
specification as soon as possible. This program will not be available in
future releases.
.PP
.B tracker-thumbnailer
takes an image file as input and produces a thumbnail which is compliant
to the freedesktop.org thumbnail specification.
.BR
It relies on external tools like \fBconvert\fR to do the 
actual transformation.
.PP
.B tracker-thumbnailer
is called by 
.B trackerd
to create thumbnails which are then used by frontends like
.B tracker-search-tool
to illustrate the search results.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIFILE\fR
Image file for which a thumbnail should be created.
.TP
\fIMIMETYPE\fR
Mime type of the image/document, e.g. image/png or application/pdf.
If no thumbnailer is installed for this mime type, \fBtracker-thumbnailer\fR
will output a error message.
.TP
\fIICONSIZE\fR
Size of the generated thumbnail.
Currently supported is only \fBnormal\fR, which is 128x128 pixel.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR trackerd (1),
.BR tracker-search (1),
.BR tracker-search-tool (1),
.BR convert (1).

.SH AUTHOR
tracker-thumbnailer was written by Edward Duffy <eduffy@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Michael Biebl <biebl@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
