.TH tracker-services 1 "July 2007" GNU "Conventions"

.SH NAME
tracker-services \- shows service types and propeties available in trackerd

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tracker-services
[-sp] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B tracker-services
returns the services types and properties available in 
.BR tracker (1)
.PP
Trackerd understands a number of different service types which are used to
group search results and documents together. All searches and queries can
be refined by specifying a service type to search from.
.PP
For example one could search for "Roses" in the service Conversations
which would only return hits from chat conversations.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-s 
Return service types.
.TP
\-p
Return properties.
.PP
These options can be used simultaneously.

.SH SERVICE TYPES
Default services types (Note than applications can add more):
.TP
Files
Search for files only. This does not include Emails or Conversations.
.TP
Folders
Search for folders i.e. directories.
.TP
Documents
Searches for general documents like word processing,
spreadsheets or PDF.
.TP
Emails
Searches for Emails.
.TP
EmailAttachments
Search es for Email attachments.
.TP
Music
Search for music files.
.TP
Images
Search for image files.
.TP
Videos
Search for video files.
.TP
Text
Search for plain text files.
.TP
Development
Search for development files. This includes make files,
source code files and the like.
.TP
Other
Search for documents which could not be put in one of the other services.
.TP
Applications
Search for applications.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR trackerd (1),
.BR tracker-search (1),
.BR tracker-search-tool (1),
.BR tracker-query (1),
.BR tracker-files (1).
