.TH trackerd 1 "September 2006" "Version 0.5"
.SH NAME
trackerd \- indexer daemon for tracker search tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B trackerd [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B trackerd
porvides both a powerful indexer and an extensible metadata database. It indexes files including the text contents and any available metadata to provide 
fast search services. By default, trackerd will index all files in a users home directory (with 
the exception of hidden files). This can be overriden by specifying one or 
more directories to be indexed instead in the config file 
($Home/.Tracker/tracker.cfg) and/or by using the --include-dir param to specify
other directories to be indexed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-e, --exclude-dir=/PATH/DIR
Specifies directories to be excluded from indexing
.TP
\[-i, --include-dir=/PATH/DIR]
Specifies directories to be included for indexing. All non-hidden sub directories of the specified directory will also be indexed. If this param is set then the user's home directory is no longer indexed by default (you can still add the home directory to this param)
.TP
\--no-indexing
Disables indexing of any files
.TP
\--verbosity=value
Value that controls the level of logging to both the log file and to stdout. Valid values are 0 (default minimal), 1 (detailed) and 2 (debug)

.TP
\--throttle=value
Value to use for throttling indexing. Value must be in range 0-20 (default 0) with lower values increasing indexing speed

.TP
\-m, --low-memory
 Minimises the use of memory but may slow indexing down
.TP
\-l, --language=value
 Language to use for stemmer and stop words list (ISO 639-1 2 characters code)

.SH FILES
.I $Home/.Tracker/tracker.cfg
.RS
Trackerd user configuration file. See
.BR tracker.cfg(5)
for further details.
.SH AUTHOR
Baptiste Mille-Mathias <baptiste.millemathias@gmail.com>
Jamie McCracken <jamiemcc at gnome org>
