.TH tracker.cfg 5 "July 2007" GNU "Configuration Files"

.SH NAME
tracker.cfg \- configuration file for the trackerd search daemon

.SH DESCRIPTION
The tracker.cfg file resides in the $HOME/.config/tracker directory.
.PP
The file is organized in sections, each section having a number of
related options.
.SS Comments
Empty lines and those starting with ; or # are ignored.
.SS Value Types
.TP
VALUE
Denotes a positive integer.
.TP
BOOLEAN
Denotes either true or false.
.TP
Any other value
Any special keyword is to be replaced by one of the documented valid
values, e.g. pathnames or language codes.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
[General]
.PP
Verbosity=0
.PP
InitialSleep=50

.SH Sections
.SS General
This section may contain general settings for trackerd.
.TP
Verbosity=VALUE
Specifies how verbose trackerd should be logging. VALUE can be one of
0 through 3.
.RS
.TP
0
Show no but error and critical output, this is the default behavior.
.TP
1
Show minimal output, i.e. not just errors.
.TP
2
Show verbose output.
.TP
3
Show debugging output, enable this only if you know what you are doing.
.RE
.TP
LowMemoryMode=BOOLEAN
Enables low memory mode. Tracker may be slightly less fast at
indexing/search but also needs less system memory.
.TP
InitialSleep=VALUE
Sets the initial sleep time for trackerd. This is a number of seconds
that trackerd wait before indexing.

.SS Watches
.TP
WatchDirectoryRoots=DIRECTORY[;MORE;DIRECTORIES]
Sets the directories trackerd should watch and index. Defaults to the
users home directory.
.TP
NoWatchDirectory=DIRECTORY[;MORE;DIRECTORIES]
Sets directories trackerd should ignore, i.e. not index or watch.
.TP
EnableWatching=BOOLEAN
Enables or disables watching of directories, i.e. re-index files when
they change.

.SS Indexing
This section may contain indexing related options.
.TP
Throttle=VALUE
Sets the throttling value for the Indexer. VALUE can be any number from
0 to 20 whereas higher values decrease indexing speed.
.TP
EnableIndexing=BOOLEAN
Enable or disable the indexer.
.TP
EnableFileContentIndexing=BOOLEAN
Enable or disable indexing of files text contents.
.TP
EnableThumbnails=BOOLEAN
Enable or disable the generation of thumbnails.
.TP
NoIndexFileTypes=FILEGLOB[;MORE;FILEGLOBS...]
List of partial file patterns (glob) separated by semicolons that specify
files not to index. Only basic metadata (i.e. information retrieved by
stat(2)) is indexed.
.TP
MinWordLength=VALUE
Sets the minimum word length to index. Words having less then VALUE
characters will not be indexed.
.TP
MaxWordLength=VALUE
Sets the maximum word length to index. Words having more then VALUE
characters will not be indexed.
.TP
Language=LANGCODE
Sets the language specific stemmer and stopword list to use. Valid
values are:
.RS
.TP
en
English
.TP
da
Danish
.TP
nl
dutch
.TP
fi
Finnish
.TP
fr
French
.TP
de
German
.TP
it
Italian
.TP
nb
Norwegian
.TP
pt
Portuguese
.TP
ru
Russian
.TP
es
Spanish
.TP
sv
Swedish
.RE
.TP
EnableStemmer=BOOLEAN
Enable or disable the stemmer.

.SS Emails
This section may contain Email specific options.
.TP
IndexEvolutionEmails=BOOLEAN
Enable or disable indexing for Evolution emails.
.TP
IndexThunderbirdEmails=BOOLEAN
Enable or disable indexing for Thunderbird emails.

.SS Performance
Trackerd performance related options.
.TP
MaxTextToIndex=VALUE
Maximum size of text in bytes to index from a file's text contents.
Defaults to 1048576.
.TP
MaxWordsToIndex=VALUE
Maximum number of unique words to index from a file's text contents.
Defaults to 10000.
.TP
OptimizationSweepCount=VALUE
Specifies the no of entities to index before determining whether to
perform index optimization. Default to 10000.
.TP
MaxBucketCount=VALUE
Sets the maximum bucket count for the indexer. Defaults to 524288.
.TP
MinBucketCount=VALUE
Sets the minimum bucket count. Defaults to 65536
.TP
Divisions=VALUE
Sets no. of divisions of the index file. Default to 4.
.TP
BucketRatio=VALUE
Selects the desired ratio of used records to buckets to be used when
optimizing index (should be a value between 0 and 4). Defaults to 1.
.TP
Padding=VALUE
Alters how much padding is used to prevent index relocations. Higher
values improve indexing speed but waste more disk space. Value should
be in range (1..8). Defaults to 2.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tracker(1)
